---
title: Jekyll for Static Websites
layout: post
---

# Jekyll for Static Websites

Jekyll is a static website generator that can transform Markdown and Liquid
templates into HTML. GitHub Pages fully supports Jekyll, so you can easily
deploy your site to GitHub for free. My personal website (what you are
currently reading) is generated by Jekyll and the articles are written in
Markdown. This article discusses my experience with using Jekyll on a Mac.

## Getting Started

Before you install Jekyll, make sure you have a Linux or Mac computer with Ruby
version 2.1 or higher and RubyGems. For the Mac, make sure you have also
installed Xcode and its command-line tools. Finally, in the terminal, type the
following command to install Jekyll:

```bash
gem install jekyll
```

To learn the basics of Jekyll and its template system, refer to the
documentation provided at [jekyllrb.com/docs](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/).

## Listing Posts

Jekyll will convert Markdown files in the `_posts` folder to HTML. To
alphabetically list these posts (or articles) by title in a webpage, use the
following Liquid and HTML syntax:

```html
{% raw %}{% assign sortedPosts = site.posts | sort_natural: 'title' %}
{% for post in sortedPosts %}
  <p><a href="{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></p>
{% endfor %}{% endraw %}
```

## Remove Date from Post URL

If you don't want the date as part of the url for post pages, it can be removed
with the following command in the `_config.yml` file:

```yml
permalink: none
```

## Further Reading

The official Jekyll documentation is available at
[jekyllrb.com](https://jekyllrb.com). Visit
[liquidmarkup.org](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/) to learn more about the
Liquid template language.

